README.md, before:

# react-native-rsa-native

A native implementation of RSA key generation and encryption/decryption, sign/verify.
Keychain implementation
Implementation is in PKCS1

## Support

iOS 10+
android 4.1+ (API 16)

## Status

Features:
Generation,
Encryption,
Decryption,
Sign,
Verify,
Keychain support

## Getting started

`$ yarn add react-native-rsa-native`

or:

`$ npm install react-native-rsa-native --save`

### Mostly automatic installation:

`$ react-native link react-native-rsa-native`

## iOS

In your React Native Xcode project, right click on your project and go 'Add Files to ...', then navigate to <your-project-root>/node_modules/react-native-rsa-native/ios and select the RNRSA.xcodeproj file. Then in the build settings for your target under 'Link Binary With Libraries', add libRNRSA.a.

## Example Usage

These basic examples show a typical use case using both promise chains
and async/await.
See [the full API documentation below](#documentation)
for more detail on the methods available.

### Encrypt a message

Encrypt a message and subsequently decrypt it,
using the RSA class in a promise chain structure.

```js
import { RSA } from 'react-native-rsa-native';

let message = "my secret message";

RSA.generateKeys(4096) // set key size
.then(keys => {
    console.log('4096 private:', keys.private); // the private key
    console.log('4096 public:', keys.public); // the public key
    RSA.encrypt(message, keys.public)
    .then(encodedMessage => {
        console.log(`the encoded message is ${encodedMessage}`);
        RSA.decrypt(encodedMessage, keys.private)
        .then(decryptedMessage => {
            console.log(`The original message was ${decryptedMessage}`);
        });
    });
});
```

### Sign a message

Sign a message and subsequently verify it,
using the RSAKeychain class in an async/await structure.

```typescript
import { RSAKeychain } from 'react-native-rsa-native';

async main() {
    let keyTag = 'com.domain.mykey';
    let message = "message to be verified";

    let publicKey = await generateKeyPair(keyTag);
    // Share the generated public key with third parties as desired.

    let messageSignature = await RSAKeychain.sign(message, keyTag);

    if (await RSAKeychain.verify(messageSignature, message, keyTag)) {
        // The signature matches: trust this message.
    } else {
        // The signature does not match.
    }

    await RSAKeychain.deletePrivateKey(keyTag);
}

async generateKeyPair(keyTag : string) {
    let keys = await RSAKeychain.generate(keyTag);
    return keys.public;
}
```

Check out example App.js for a full example

## Documentation
### RSA Class

A class that performs RSA cryptographic primitives
in a simple and straightforward manner.
If you would prefer to use the underlying operating system's built-in
security keychain, use [the RSAKeychain Class](#rsakeychain-class) instead.

#### generateKeys
`static generateKeys(keySize : number) : Promise<KeyPair>`

Generate a public/private key pair of the given key size.

#### generate
`static generate() : Promise<KeyPair>`

Equivalent to `generateKeys(2048)`

#### encrypt
`static encrypt(message : string, publicKey : string) : Promise<string>`

Encrypt a given message with the provided public key, so it is decryptable with the matching private key.

#### decrypt
`static decrypt(encodedMessage : string, privateKey : string) : Promise<string>`

Decrypt a given encrypted message using the private key.

#### sign
`static sign(message: string, privateKey : string) : Promise<string>`

Sign a given message with the private key, so that any user with the message, the returned signature, and the matching public key can verify it was signed under this key.

#### verify
`static verify(signature : string, message : string, publicKey : string) : Promise<boolean>`

Verify whether or not a provided signature was produced by signing the given message with the private key paired to the provided public key.

### RSAKeychain Class
Support: android 4.3+ (API 18)

Like [the RSA Class](#rsa-class),
but when its methods are called, instead of directly accessing the private key,
the private key is stored in the underlying operating system's keychain
(see documentation
[for iOS](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/keychain_services) and
[for Android](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/security/KeyChain))
using a tag which the app can use to access it.
Methods then take this tag instead of the private key.

#### generateKeys
`static generateKeys(keySize : number, keyTag : string) : Promise<PublicKey>`

Generate a public/private key pair of the given key size,
and store the private key in the operating system keychain.

#### generate
`static generate(keyTag : string) : Promise<KeyPair>`

Equivalent to `generateKeys(2048, keyTag)`

#### encrypt
`static encrypt(message : string, keyTag : string) : Promise<string>`

Retrieve the public key associated with the key tag,
and encrypt a given message with that key,
so it is decryptable with the matching private key.

#### decrypt
`static decrypt(encodedMessage : string, keyTag : string) : Promise<string>`

Decrypt a given encrypted message using the private key
associated with the given key tag.

#### sign
`static sign(message: string, keyTag : string) : Promise<string>`

Sign a given message with the private key associated with the given key tag,
so that any user with
the message, the returned signature, and the matching public key
can verify it was signed under this key.

#### signWithAlgorithm
`static sign(message: string, keyTag : string, algorithm?: 'SHA256withRSA' | 'SHA512withRSA') : Promise<string>`

Sign a given message with the private key associated with the given key tag,
so that any user with
the message, the returned signature, and the matching public key
can verify it was signed under this key. The user can use __SHA256withRSA__ or __SHA512withRSA__ algorithm for signing. 
__SHA256withRSA__ algorithm is not backward compatible on android and the user needs to generate new keypair for this to work. (available from ^1.1.0). The default is __SHA512withRSA__ and if one wishes to use __SHA512withRSA__ for signing without new keypair, then use the above sign method.


#### verify
`static verify(signature : string, message : string, keyTag : string) : Promise<boolean>`

Verify whether or not a provided signature was produced by signing the given message with private key associated with the given key tag.

#### verifyWithAlgorithm
`static verify(signature : string, message : string, keyTag : string, algorithm?: 'SHA256withRSA' | 'SHA512withRSA') : Promise<boolean>`

Verify whether or not a provided signature was produced by signing the given message with private key associated with the given key tag.

#### deletePrivateKey
`static deletePrivateKey(keyTag : string) : Promise<boolean>`

Delete the private key from the operating system's keychain.
Returns true if the key was removed successfully.

### KeyPair Type

Note: The `KeyPair` type does not strictly exist.
Documentation provided here for convenience of understanding the return types
of other methods.

Property | Description
--|--
`private : string` | The RSA private key.
`public : string` | The RSA public key.

### PublicKey Type

Note: The `PublicKey` type does not strictly exist.
Documentation provided here for convenience of understanding the return types
of other methods.

Property | Description
--|--
`public : string` | The RSA public key.

## Credit

* Originally based on https://github.com/SamSaffron/react-native-key-pair
* iOS implementation [reference](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Security/Conceptual/CertKeyTrustProgGuide/KeyRead.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40001358-CH222-SW1)


## Donate

ETH: 0xDc2F8D78098749EB3ECdF79Fe32Efda86fEEFc3c

Commit message:

increase to version 2.0.0 and update docs

README.md, after:

# react-native-rsa-native

A native implementation of RSA key generation and encryption/decryption, sign/verify.
Keychain implementation
Implementation is in PKCS1

## Support

iOS 10+
android 4.1+ (API 16)

## Status

Features:
Generation,
Encryption,
Decryption,
Sign,
Verify,
Keychain support

## Getting started

`$ yarn add react-native-rsa-native`

or:

`$ npm install react-native-rsa-native --save`

## Older React-Native versions
If you are using an older version of React Native and are having issues try using v1.1.14

## Example Usage

These basic examples show a typical use case using both promise chains
and async/await.
See [the full API documentation below](#documentation)
for more detail on the methods available.

### Encrypt a message

Encrypt a message and subsequently decrypt it,
using the RSA class in a promise chain structure.

```js
import { RSA } from 'react-native-rsa-native';

let message = "my secret message";

RSA.generateKeys(4096) // set key size
.then(keys => {
    console.log('4096 private:', keys.private); // the private key
    console.log('4096 public:', keys.public); // the public key
    RSA.encrypt(message, keys.public)
    .then(encodedMessage => {
        console.log(`the encoded message is ${encodedMessage}`);
        RSA.decrypt(encodedMessage, keys.private)
        .then(decryptedMessage => {
            console.log(`The original message was ${decryptedMessage}`);
        });
    });
});
```

### Sign a message

Sign a message and subsequently verify it,
using the RSAKeychain class in an async/await structure.

```typescript
import { RSAKeychain } from 'react-native-rsa-native';

async main() {
    let keyTag = 'com.domain.mykey';
    let message = "message to be verified";

    let publicKey = await generateKeyPair(keyTag);
    // Share the generated public key with third parties as desired.

    let messageSignature = await RSAKeychain.sign(message, keyTag);

    if (await RSAKeychain.verify(messageSignature, message, keyTag)) {
        // The signature matches: trust this message.
    } else {
        // The signature does not match.
    }

    await RSAKeychain.deletePrivateKey(keyTag);
}

async generateKeyPair(keyTag : string) {
    let keys = await RSAKeychain.generate(keyTag);
    return keys.public;
}
```

Check out example App.js for a full example

## Documentation
### RSA Class

A class that performs RSA cryptographic primitives
in a simple and straightforward manner.
If you would prefer to use the underlying operating system's built-in
security keychain, use [the RSAKeychain Class](#rsakeychain-class) instead.

#### generateKeys
`static generateKeys(keySize : number) : Promise<KeyPair>`

Generate a public/private key pair of the given key size.

#### generate
`static generate() : Promise<KeyPair>`

Equivalent to `generateKeys(2048)`

#### encrypt
`static encrypt(message : string, publicKey : string) : Promise<string>`

Encrypt a given message with the provided public key, so it is decryptable with the matching private key.

#### decrypt
`static decrypt(encodedMessage : string, privateKey : string) : Promise<string>`

Decrypt a given encrypted message using the private key.

#### sign
`static sign(message: string, privateKey : string) : Promise<string>`

Sign a given message with the private key, so that any user with the message, the returned signature, and the matching public key can verify it was signed under this key.

#### verify
`static verify(signature : string, message : string, publicKey : string) : Promise<boolean>`

Verify whether or not a provided signature was produced by signing the given message with the private key paired to the provided public key.

### RSAKeychain Class
Support: android 4.3+ (API 18)

Like [the RSA Class](#rsa-class),
but when its methods are called, instead of directly accessing the private key,
the private key is stored in the underlying operating system's keychain
(see documentation
[for iOS](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/security/keychain_services) and
[for Android](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/security/KeyChain))
using a tag which the app can use to access it.
Methods then take this tag instead of the private key.

#### generateKeys
`static generateKeys(keySize : number, keyTag : string) : Promise<PublicKey>`

Generate a public/private key pair of the given key size,
and store the private key in the operating system keychain.

#### generate
`static generate(keyTag : string) : Promise<KeyPair>`

Equivalent to `generateKeys(2048, keyTag)`

#### encrypt
`static encrypt(message : string, keyTag : string) : Promise<string>`

Retrieve the public key associated with the key tag,
and encrypt a given message with that key,
so it is decryptable with the matching private key.

#### decrypt
`static decrypt(encodedMessage : string, keyTag : string) : Promise<string>`

Decrypt a given encrypted message using the private key
associated with the given key tag.

#### sign
`static sign(message: string, keyTag : string) : Promise<string>`

Sign a given message with the private key associated with the given key tag,
so that any user with
the message, the returned signature, and the matching public key
can verify it was signed under this key.

#### signWithAlgorithm
`static sign(message: string, keyTag : string, algorithm?: 'SHA256withRSA' | 'SHA512withRSA') : Promise<string>`

Sign a given message with the private key associated with the given key tag,
so that any user with
the message, the returned signature, and the matching public key
can verify it was signed under this key. The user can use __SHA256withRSA__ or __SHA512withRSA__ algorithm for signing. 
__SHA256withRSA__ algorithm is not backward compatible on android and the user needs to generate new keypair for this to work. (available from ^1.1.0). The default is __SHA512withRSA__ and if one wishes to use __SHA512withRSA__ for signing without new keypair, then use the above sign method.


#### verify
`static verify(signature : string, message : string, keyTag : string) : Promise<boolean>`

Verify whether or not a provided signature was produced by signing the given message with private key associated with the given key tag.

#### verifyWithAlgorithm
`static verify(signature : string, message : string, keyTag : string, algorithm?: 'SHA256withRSA' | 'SHA512withRSA') : Promise<boolean>`

Verify whether or not a provided signature was produced by signing the given message with private key associated with the given key tag.

#### deletePrivateKey
`static deletePrivateKey(keyTag : string) : Promise<boolean>`

Delete the private key from the operating system's keychain.
Returns true if the key was removed successfully.

### KeyPair Type

Note: The `KeyPair` type does not strictly exist.
Documentation provided here for convenience of understanding the return types
of other methods.

Property | Description
--|--
`private : string` | The RSA private key.
`public : string` | The RSA public key.

### PublicKey Type

Note: The `PublicKey` type does not strictly exist.
Documentation provided here for convenience of understanding the return types
of other methods.

Property | Description
--|--
`public : string` | The RSA public key.

## Credit

* Originally based on https://github.com/SamSaffron/react-native-key-pair
* iOS implementation [reference](https://developer.apple.com/library/content/documentation/Security/Conceptual/CertKeyTrustProgGuide/KeyRead.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40001358-CH222-SW1)


## Donate

ETH: 0xDc2F8D78098749EB3ECdF79Fe32Efda86fEEFc3c
